# Virtual-Environment-for-Data-Science
Creating a github repo and a virtual environment for jupyter lab

1. Create a new repository `virtual_env` on the github portal.
2. Select `Public`
3. Check `Initialize this repository wit a README`.
4. Add .gitignore: `Python`.
5. Add a license: `MIT License`
6. Click `Create Repository`.
7. Once the repository is created, copy the link for cloning the respository.
8. Go to the terminal and create a new directory `myEnvironments`.<br/>`> mkdir myEnvironments`
9. Open the `myEnvironments` directory.
10. Run following command <br/>`> git clone <<repository link>>`
11. You will find a new directory created with `virtual_env` name. Open it. <br/>`> cd virtual_env`
12. This directory contains following three files.<br/>i. .gitignore<br/>ii LICENSE<br/>iii README.md
13. Create additional three directories :<br/>`> mkdir data`<br/>`> mkdir notebooks`<br/>`> mdkir test`
14. Let us install virtual environment with following command: <br/>`> pipenv shell`</br/>This will create a new folder `Pipfile`<br/>
(If already know what you want in this virtual environment, you can directly install the required packages with `> pipenv install <<packages>>` command.)
15. Now open a new terminal and go the 'virtual_env' directory and run command `> jupyter lab`<br/> This will open a new browser with Jupyter environment.<br/>
You will find a `Pipfile` in the left pane.
16. Go back to the terminal and install pandas package with following command:<br/>`> pipenv install pandas`<br/> This will also create new file `Pipfile.lock`. Please do not edit this file.
17. Let us also install package `numpy`:<br/>`> pipenv install numpy`<br/>You will find that the pandas and numpy packages being added in the Pipfile under Packages section.
18. To lock all these dependencies, (newly installed packages) run following command:<br/>`> pipenv lock`<br/> This will update the Pipfile.lock file as well.<br/>
Note not to edit Pipfile.lock file, else it will currupt your virtual environment.
19. Now run following commands:<br/>`> git add .`<br/>`> git commit -m "added pip env"`<br>`> git push`<br/>This will update the github with all the changes we did.
20. You can also install multiple packages as: `> pipenv install pandas numpy scikit-learn`

